# kneeOA
Convolutional Neural Network identifying healthy knees vs those with osteoarthritis.
Arthritis is the leading cause of disability in adults and seniors, and osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis, affecting over 500 million people worldwide. However, with a lack of external symptoms aside from general, hard-to-pinpoint pain, it is time-consuming and expensive to rule out other diseases and often requires *multiple examinations* before a complete diagnosis can be made as there is no definitive laboratory test for diagnosing OA. In many regions across the globe, there is no access to medical practitioners, radiographers, or the imaging technology necessary for a diagnosis of osteoarthritis. In order to combat this issue, I have developed and trained a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), a deep learning model that runs at greater than 80% accuracy, higher than the average accuracy of a trained radiologist, to successfully diagnose Knee OA. CNNs have the ability to greatly reduce the time and expenses that go into regular testing and reduce overall disease and disability rates and can increase overall quality of life for OA patients by providing an early diagnosis, the key to remission and effective treatment. They can assist or provide medical practitioners with an accurate, effective, and time-respective diagnosis for knee osteoarthritis. This can revolutionize the global healthcare industry, providing a supplemental diagnosis where trained healthcare professionals are inaccessible in certain regions, or cannot be afforded adequate materials for diagnosis. Further, the insights from the deep learning application to knee osteoarthritis and other variations of arthritis, which can easily be adapted to numerous other life-threatening diseases, will enable radiologists, rheumatologists, and other healthcare professionals to further understand osteoarthritis from a medical imaging and diagnosis standpoint. 
